# FaceDetection-Recognition

It has been decided to develop a small and simple social companion robot. This robot leads the person around the house, provides emotional support by its presence at home, reminds the user of times for medication and monitors the positions of the human body. The main advantageous and distinctive features over other robots are that it is a simple, lightweight, cheap and compact device that protects the privacy of the user and can be easily reprogrammed.

A social companion robot has been developed and designed for reducing loneliness among elderly people and monitoring purposes. By following a person around the house, it acts as a pet and improves the mood of the senior. Pose Detection Tool allows for detecting the human body positions such as standing, lying down, sitting, and fall detection. Distance Measurement Tool is implemented in order to allow the robot to move at the right distance. Center Point Calculation Tool is developed for identifying positioning the face of the person on the view plane and regarding this point moving the robot in the right direction. Medication Alert Tool is an alarm-like application that reminds elderly people to take medication at a scheduled time. All these tools are very useful in real-life applications and were developed using OpenCV and MediaPipe libraries. Before developing tools, the basics and cores of image processing were studied and tested such as face detection, face recognition and body detection. Motion system has been designed utilising 4tronix Board, Raspberry Pi 3B, and Adafruit DC motor hat. The final design with combined modules was examined under several conditions and scenarios for overviewing functionalities and identifying the limitations of the system.
